Double chicken slash S to receive that. I don't
believe we ever did it in our unit. I know we didn't.
I know we didn't. So drownouts were considered
kind of good fun? Good bull. OK, good bull. Yeah.
Define good bull.
Good bull, I think, to me, was doing something to
the upperclassmen. Now, good bull goes up. It
doesn't come down. You don't haze a freshman for
good bull, I think. That's my opinion. Doing
something to them. Because you're also telling
them you're important. Because if they're the
attraction of this, and maybe I didn't know it
then, but I know it now, that you're paying
attention to them, it makes, hey, you must be
important. Or you must have, you know. And so you
didn't want to leave anybody out. At least we
didn't mess them up. I'm sure there was other kinds
of... Could good bull be harmful in school? No,
absolutely cannot be harmful. Never. And that's
why... You asked me a question and I didn't finish
the answer. It can never hurt anybody. It can't
be... have a financial or harmful effect.
It just... an action which may cause an
embarrassment or a momentary loss of something
that they find. Am I correct that the more nearly
original, one of a kind it is, the better good bull
it is? Oh, absolutely. I'm trying to remember.
There was somebody, very few people had cars up
there at the time. And There was, someone had a
Volkswagen, and I don't know how it was done. I
think it was, I think I was either a freshman or
sophomore, but I don't know if I was either a
sophomore or junior when this happened, but that
car ended up on the third floor inside the dorm. And
they, people actually carried that car around the
stairs and up into the dorm. And you know, that,
they didn't hurt anybody, but you can imagine, you
walk out and there's your car outside your room.
You know, it's... But pranks like that, I wish I
could remember some more than I may remember some.
What was it like to be a sophomore? Tell me about
sophomore privileges. Very important position.
I thought I was King Kong. I got purple stripes. And
I didn't have them long, but I got them. And I prided
myself in my dress and in my hair. a department of, I
never marked the bullring. I never one time can I
remember marked the bullring. And I got the
merits, but not enough to get on the bullring.
I think once I reported it, it was inclement
weather and we did something else, which I thought
was a terrible waste of time, as times go. But of
course, you know, People would love to tell you, I
think, and I would love to tell you that, boy, you
know, I was the freshman's friend, and I really
worked on training, but in respect we did, we
weren't their friend to speak of, but we were
concerned because it was our job to teach them
certain things, like how you wear the uniform, how
to march. Sometimes, and I'm not going to say I
didn't go overboard, we all went overboard.
That's part of the learning process of of
responsibility and finding the line. And you've
got to cross it to find it sometimes. And I made a
cross because I lost my corporal stripes. When did
you feel, describe for me the emotional
circumstance when you officially became a
sophomore? Well, of course, that was at
senior review. And that's when you're officially
a sophomore and you start feeling, there's no
freshman around, but the juniors then start
treating you like a human being. And do you
remember anybody saying or doing anything that
made you feel, okay, it's really finally
happened?
I suspect that the first sergeant gave us a pep talk
about it. And certainly when we got back, there was
a lot of means to align our responsibilities and
and how important it was to be a good sophomore. But
a final review is when you put on your brass and you
wear your hat a little different. And you can call,
instead of calling somebody a mystery, you call
them by their last name. And then if their desire to
drop handles with you, they do so. Even though a lot
of people drop handles as freshmen. And those, you
call by their first name Now, I presume that you
didn't have any family there for that final
review, you're afraid, you're fishing. Let's
jump to academics. Some special teachers,
advisors, counselors that you remember as being
important to your academic preparation. You
know, I thought C.K.
English? English, yeah. C.K. Estes. Estes, yeah,
C.K. He was also the announcer at the football game
for so long. I had English with him as a, I guess as a
junior, and he was a very interesting man. He was
just absolutely, where I feel like people are
trying to challenge our thinking, and not
necessarily our I mean, we had to write a lot and do a
lot of things, but he was just so interesting from
being a civil engineering major. I enjoyed the
math courses. Teddy Hirsch at the time was a TTI. I
think he was working on a doctorate. And I had a
sophomore course with him in something in
engineering, and he was really interesting. Dr.
Harrington. Well, there were two Dr. Harrington
at the time. One of the top hydraulics to us. Of
course, even my brothers had just gone through.
And so they kind of picked on me a little bit from the
standpoint of another Fernandez coming through.
Not picked on me, but picked on me fun-wise. And I
felt important them doing that, frankly.
Joe Sorrells in soils was an excellent
instructor. General Buchanan. Spencer. He's
elderly. Spencer, yeah. I remember that he taught
us a course, and we were seniors, and starting to
think about, hey, what do you do, and what word do
you use when you hit your jobs?
You know, those kinds of things.
Let's see. History.
Haskell, I took, I know, one history course, maybe
both, in summer school, where I could concentrate
on them. Because I would go to summer school when
I'd go back to Laredo and go to junior college. I
know I took a history course there. I don't
remember taking a history course at College
Station. You said chemistry, math? Chemistry was
challenging. Who? Do you remember who it was? The
one I flunked or the one I passed? I passed
chemistry one, and... John Beckham, by chance?
No, I didn't have Beckham. And then I flunked
chemistry two, and then I took it my sophomore
year. And, you know, there's quizzes that float
around. And academically, I probably...
Chemistry wasn't my best subject. And I probably
went in with a 70 into the final exam. And you don't
study for chemistry? What do you do? So, Halloween
is, my dear friend, the Greek from Houston... He
had an old final. We didn't know where it was from.
We studied that. And four of us studied it. I'd
probably go to jail today. But no, it was legal.
They were around. They were here to criticize. And
we didn't steal it. But we studied that. And just in
case, we happened to get this exam. Hey, let's not
sit anywhere close together. So we sat in four
different corners. And just four of us studied it.
Verbatim. I mean, it was exactly. I mean, that's
the most astonishing thing that ever happened to
me. That's the fault of the faculty member. I don't
know. I might not have passed the second time he had
been there. He probably said, how did this guy get
so smart so quick? I know he's not. Do you remember
any of the faculty nicknames?
Yeah, in our course of civil engineering, Snuffy
Smith. Why was he called Snowfield? Oh, I think he
had a nasal problem. I think that's right. I've
seen a book recently where we had some of these
nicknames. And who else was there? There was
another gentleman, such a neat man. Oh, what a
gentleman.
but none other than the nickname. He just always
had such a nice presence about him. But Dr. Wright
was the department chair. We didn't interact with
the department chair a whole lot. He didn't
either. I never took a course with him. But... All
right, what about over in the Corps area? Attack
officers, commandants? We had favorite attack
officers. Of course, we had nicknames for them.
There was the Goose, and there was Porky. The
Goose, I'm trying to think of his name, his brother
was in our class. Goose had a brother that was class
59.
And then, I swear, I can't remember the last name.
Give me a chance, when it was Lieutenant
Hornstein, I still see Hornstein from time to
time. Who was the commandant then? Moore? No, not
Moore, excuse me. Joe...
Joe Davis. Joe Davis. Joe Davis. All right. Now, do
I remember Fighting Joe? Was that the nickname he
had? He was too high up there for us to get a nickname
to. But one time we were lining up for supper to go to
dinner, and of course the goose had a very, well, he
was called the goose. He had a very posture kind of
problem that he kind of looked like a goose when the
upper half of his body kind of tilted forward. You
know how a goose looks. And then Porky had
obviously the statistics to go with that. And they
were up there and they were calling to, and by that
time we were in the Duncan area. And the steam
tunnel, you know, the lid opens up, boom, out comes
a pig, out comes a goose, and they just scatter. The
whole court just died laughing. And boy, they
turned red and green and every color in the
booklet. Those were pranks. They didn't hurt
anybody. That's a good book. That's a good book.
All right. Classroom behavior. What do you, as you
look back, what were the unwritten or maybe well
understood rules of classroom behavior?
We didn't have a behavior problem in the classroom
that I remember. Did you all go to class regularly?
Absolutely. Did you stay awake? Most of the time.
The only time I've had a problem is maybe I was up
working all night on a lab or on a problem that we
turned in, and many, many times we saw the sun come
up. finishing up a report, because that's a
procrastinator. But we were there, and we were
attentive, and the instructors were of quality
that I remember. Were they available when you
needed them, if you wanted to see them? They
weren't there ten minutes after the hour. There
was nobody else there to read them. But if you
needed to go see them one-on-one, seek advice, you
could find them? Yes. You know, I never... I never
had, I never did that. Maybe I should have. Maybe I
would have gotten out in four and a half years. But
they were, they were certainly, especially when
you're in the department.
You know, we took, a freshman took mechanical
drawing, took English, math. See, I was a math
whiz. And I thought, man, this is a piece of cake.
And I almost didn't pass math with a freshman. I
just, I think I took it too lightly.
I posted a .89 my first semester. And I went up there
with, you know, I had pretty good, I had very good
high school preparation. They prepared us
excellent. And I think just, you know, finding,
learning how to, number one, schedule one's time
and those kind of things. But it got my attention. I
got on probation the first semester. Did you have
in math square root Jackson or cube root Kent,
either one? No, but I heard of it, yeah. Let's see,
let's go to activities. YMCA, do you remember? We
didn't do Y. All right, MSC. MSC was, because I
worked there, and it was... What role did it play in
the typical student's life? Our post office box
was there. Either, well, when we were... If you
lived around Duncan, it was there. If you lived at
the other, it was the one on the corner of
Northgate. But, you know, so you went there. It was
kind of a place between classes. We didn't really
hang out there. Were you proud of it? I was, sure.
That was built in 50, right? Opened in 50, and I was
there in 55. Did you and Wayne Stark ever interact?
I knew him. I didn't interact with him as I heard he
interacted with some tremendous students. Guy
and Hall, did you ever go? Fantastic. What was
important about Guy? Well, there were two shows
going on. There was a show on the screen, and there
was a show, and the comments of the roommate, and a
lot of it. It was just a fun place to be. And was the
audience almost entirely all students? Yes. Do
you remember anything ever being said that was bad
taste? No, absolutely not. Let me just clarify
that. Never any profanity.
And I'm pretty conscious of that, even as a young
man. And
our values move around in our...
But for college, the campus of the day, nothing
grows. It was okay. Do you remember any important
lecturers or famous personalities that ever came
to? speak at Guyon? No, I don't.
And I know there were sometimes religious related
activities in Guyon. We went to, you know, the
Catholic Church was very active. You know, I was so
busy when I was a student. Number one, working.
Number two, playing corps cadets, which probably
If you ask me in what order, that, and then
academics. And then my days were full. And
intramurals. I loved intramurals. We did that.
And the core activities and everything. I didn't
have a lot of time. And I never, to my loss,
participated in any of the, I think SCOAN started
about that time, if I remember correctly. And
there were other things that were available. Did
you go on weekends? Did you go to Mass? Yes. Where?
At the, what is it, St. Ann's? St. John's? I can't
remember. I want to say St. Mary's, but I don't
think that's right. Yeah, I think St. Mary's. I
can't remember the priest's name. As you recall, a
typical Sunday morning, the audience would be
made up of what? Mostly students or half students?
No, there was, there was, we can't identify with a
lot of faculty, but there was, especially on
weekends, there were a couple there, parents and
folks like that. Of course, at that time, parents
didn't come up to the university like we were able
to enjoy when our kids were there. My mother went
for my graduation. The only time she went to the
campus. I don't think my father ever went. Do you
remember religious emphasis week in the spring?
Yes. Do you remember participating? Well, it was
just like any other week of religion. We went every
Sunday to Mass. And also, I guess at Mass you see
your hometown buddies, but most of them were
Catholic. And we would see each other there. And
Sunday was a softer day than others. Thank you. Do
you remember any, now as you look back, any
life-changing conversation or events during
your student years? Events? Yeah, where? Many,
many events. Share some.
It impacted me.
Remember I told you that the group or the company
that had the best General Moore got the top floor.
And when we were juniors, we were on the bottom
floor.
And that was humiliation.
Paul Buenas was the first sergeant and Tommy Lone
was platoon leader, and I can't recall who the
other one was. And then we all, we had a meeting the
first week of school as juniors, okay? And you
couldn't stand the humiliation of not being the
best outfit in that battalion. So what we did, we
set a goal to win general war. And we said, here,
this is how you're graded. Okay, you're in charge
of this, you're in charge of this, you're in charge
of that. You're in charge of intramurals. And then
I became the intramural sergeant. And we all had a
job. And we were always strong in student
leadership. We didn't have a class that didn't
have a vice president, president class. We
motivated our people and they motivated us. to
seek out and to do the kinds of things that
interested us. And we had a program the time
before. And so there's no reason for you to get a
forfeit. The least you can do is show up and
represent. And then if you show up and have a little
bit of organization, and that was my job. And we
came in the top 10, both upperclassmen and
freshmen, from down in the nobody even noticed. We
came in second in marching. who came in high in
grades. Bottom line, we wanted to know more. Now
see, that's the kind of thing that I treasure in
here. Do you remember any one-on-one
conversations with a faculty member or an advisor
that you now realize were important to you?
Not one that just, you know, that I would get to
pull, even though they were all extremely kind and
helpful, and they had to be to get me through. I
mean, I know I challenged some of them, but getting
back to the General Moore deal, it taught me that I
can do anything. And if you work in a group with
someone responsible for something, that you can
get a team going and You may not win that brass ring,
but we can sure, by proper planning and hard work,
can do anything. And I was so proud. It was one of the
proudest moments of my life. You showed that while
ago in your response. Describe, in general, the
student body when you were there, economically,
geographic origin, ethnic, et cetera.
Economically. Economically, I guess even though
it wasn't important, you could tell who came from a
little more affluent family because they might
have a car in the parking lot even though there were
very few cars. By and large, were the students
rich? No, I didn't think so. I would have been
surprised if you had said yes. No, most of us were
from small towns and big towns, but just ordinary
people. Ordinary people. And a high percentage of
first-generation college students, I bet.
Frankly, I don't think it was a topic of interest. I
wouldn't be surprised. I know we were serving the
first generation of our family, Brother Gus and
Albert and I. But everybody wore the same uniform,
and you really couldn't tell. And nobody ever
flunked it. You know, flaunted that. Let's see.
There were, of course, there were no blacks, and
there was, there was a, not a handful, there was a
considerable number of Mexican-Americans, a lot
from Laredo, from San Antonio, and a lot of other
areas. It wasn't, I wasn't the only one there. Did
any, did you or anyone else feel that you were
handicapped
in being selected for anything because of your
background. It's a non-factor. Not to get it or to
get it. I would have been surprised if you had said
otherwise. I know Hector Gutierrez well. And
Hector says the fact that he was corps commander,
he said that had nothing to do with my last name,
which I say hooray. Let's see. Optional student
organizations. Was the singing cadets, were they
around then? They were around. Did you all have a,
to being a singing cadet, was that a plus or a minus
for anybody? You know, they weren't as visible at
that time as they are today, even though, well,
maybe to where they presented were more visible.
We probably did, it was like those that did it, it
was like those in the band, you know, it wasn't
something that was a negative or a positive. What
about the band? Was that a high prestige?
I'm hesitating because I want to be sure that I
think about the question. You know, even being
athletes at that time, you know, I took classes
with Richard Gay. He was a C.E. major and with a lot
of other football players and basketball
players. It was... Did y'all make fun of the band
members? No, absolutely not. That surprised me
when I... And I guess that's probably a good fun,
maybe even a little jealousy there. I hold them in
awe. We were their best supporters. We never left
the stands at halftime. The band was important to
us. But it wasn't like they were a notch above or a
notch below because they were or weren't What
would have been the most notable student
leadership position?
In my opinion? Then and now? No, then. Then. Then
and now. Oh. Company commander. Company
commander. That's where the rubber meets the
road. Oh, okay. Because student body president
wasn't a big deal. It was pretty important. Was it?
That was, yeah. Okay. That was. But I still, you
see, the unit commander is the, at that time, there
was three buttons. And to me, that was the most
prestigious. Yeah, my roommate was student body
president. John Thomas. Oh, yeah. One of my
roommates. And... But we trained and we prepared
for those kinds of jobs in my outfit. And it was part
of doing our job. And we had, you know, we had that
year, the class vice president was a member of our
outfit.
And like I said, in every class we had somebody from
our outfit in one of the four offices. But I think
that the company commander is the most
prestigious position.
Let's see. RVs? Prestigious. First real team.
Now, I'm not asking if you were one or not. I was not.
No, no, no, no, no. RVs never know what I mean. They
don't have grades. I'm about to ask them another
question. Were you aware there were any secret
fraternities when you were a student? No, I was
not. No, no, you were not aware? I was not aware.
Okay. Because as I've done these interviews, a few
people have given me guarded answers. Yes, they
heard about the TTs and the stickers, but... I
haven't gotten any. I don't know anybody that was
in
one. I don't know. Oh, you know the funny story, if
you want to know the funny story. Please do. As,
because you know, we go to summer camp as juniors.
Okay, I was, I wasn't a hellraiser, but I was, I was
active, let me put it that way. But I was also active
in the plus things, and maybe, you know, I lived
close to the line, and... And I was doing a lot of
things. My grades were marginal, but I took corps
seriously, even though some of the tech officers
in the commandant's office might have said, well,
I don't know about him. But when we went to summer
camp, again, you know, play the game. And I was
selected And you go and you're bunched in with a
bunch of people from other schools, St. Mary's,
Providence, there was Oklahoma, and we went to
Hood. And I got selected number two. I was the
number two cadet in this company. But Aggies
usually score high. And the number one cadet, I
think it was, it was an Aggie, and I think it may have
been Fred Capra. They do about an alphabet. But
anyway, I was recommended for a distinguished
military student. And I know they had a very good
laugh about that in the commandant's office when
that recommendation came down. And I saw the
letter, but I didn't have the craze, number one.
But I had the will.
Let's see. Describe a basketball game in G
Raleigh. Loud, fun. We had more, we had a large
contingent of the band, if I remember correctly.
It was a, it was pretty, it wasn't a skeleton, it
wasn't a skeleton band. And we went, we went to the
basketball games. Do you remember any pranks or
jokes at a basketball game? Any tricks they were
played on anybody? No, no they don't. I haven't
heard of any. They didn't play a lot of baseball
games.